# Computational-Musicology
Corpus choice: Playlist 
Creating playlists is a fun way to switch up your musical taste, interest and keep the entertainment to the highest level. As someone who gets tired of songs, easily creating various playlists helps me to jump between my playlists and switch up the mood. In my opinion, playlists help you maximize the enjoyment of songs while setting the right atmosphere and mindset. On the other hand, playlists save you time in various situations like study playlist, workout playlist, meditation playlist, morning playlist, party playlist etc. 
The natural groups in my corpus are people, genres, artists and albums. My expectations are as follows. I believe there will be a positive correlation with albums and genres. Negative correlation between people and genres, as individuals tend to have several playlists across genres. Negative correlation between people and artists, the probability of an individual listening to one artist is very unlikely. 
One of the features Spotify provides is enhancing your playlist automatically on free plan and gives you the option to enhance your playlist with songs that are in similar genres as the songs in the playlist. This feature has its benefits and flaws. With the free plan you have no option other than have your playlist edited without your choice, with the paid plan you can undo this feature and the accuracy of this feature to match your musical taste is questionable. 
Typical tracks in my corpus can be classical songs combined in a "study playlist" or rap/hip hop songs grouped together for a "workout playlist".

Second submission: 

Corpus choice: Playlist and Geographical region

Study playlist can play an important role in the productivity level of any study session. While studying together with friends we ended up in situation where we had to listen to our individual playlists in headphones, because each of our taste in study music was very different. Therefore the first question I want to look into is what makes any music or song a study-friendly option. Does it involve its slow rhytm, low dancebility, low energy, low dancebility, yet the most important question I want to figure out is the level of accousticness and instrumentalness across various types of study playlists. My main research question is what combination of the main features classify the music into study friendly. It will be possible to compare the opposite of study music, for example, workout or party playlist and contrast it to study music. 
The examples of songs and playlists I will be using for the speechiness and instrumentalness will be soft vs. intense classical musics (how commonly they are categorized under study playlist?). I want to look into rhytm and tempo of "lofi" beats and what feature combination makes them study friendly.
Another branching of can be the level of speechiness and various languages spoken in corelation with the geographic region the playlist is played in. (My current worry is that the data won't be accessible to correlate language of the songs and geographic region). Example to test for correlation of the speechiness and geographic region can be "Korean Drama ost". The nature of soundtracks for Korean Dramas are soft which makes them suitable for study music. High speechiness of any songs makes them distractive and not suitable for the category of study playlist, however, not being able to undestand the language of the songs solves the issue of distraction and considering that all other features are met they can be added to the study playlist. As we can see in example of numerous study playlist consisting of K-Drama Ost.
